README.md, before:

# lark

A CLI tool for interacting with Lark/Feishu APIs, designed for use with Claude Code and other AI assistants.

## Why This Tool?

The official Lark MCP server exists, but its tools are not token-efficient. Each tool call returns verbose responses that consume significant context window space when used with AI assistants.

This CLI addresses that by:

- **Returning compact JSON** - Structured output optimized for programmatic consumption
- **Providing markdown conversion** - Documents are converted to markdown (~2-3x smaller than raw block structures)
- **Supporting selective queries** - Fetch only what you need (e.g., just event IDs, just document titles)

The result: AI assistants can interact with Lark using fewer tokens, leaving more context for actual work.

## Features

- **Calendar** - List, create, update, delete events; check availability; find common free time; RSVP
- **Contacts** - Look up users by ID, search by name, list department members
- **Documents** - Read documents as markdown, list folders, resolve wiki nodes, get comments
- **Messages** - Retrieve chat history, download attachments

## Quick Start

1. Create a Lark app at https://open.larksuite.com with appropriate permissions
2. Copy `config.example.yaml` to `.lark/config.yaml` and add your App ID
3. Set `LARK_APP_SECRET` environment variable
4. Run `./lark auth login` to authenticate
5. Start using: `./lark cal list --week`

See [USAGE.md](USAGE.md) for full documentation.

## Building

```bash
make build    # Build binary to ./lark
make test     # Run tests
make install  # Install to $GOPATH/bin
```

## Usage with Claude Code

This tool is designed to be invoked via Claude Code skills. Pre-built skill definitions are included in the `skills/` directory.

### Installing Skills

Copy the skill directories to your Claude Code skills location:

```bash
# Project-specific (recommended)
cp -r skills/* /path/to/your/project/.claude/skills/

# Or user-wide
cp -r skills/* ~/.claude/skills/
```

Available skills:
- `calendar` - Manage calendar events, check availability, RSVP
- `contacts` - Look up users and departments
- `documents` - Read documents, list folders, browse wikis
- `messages` - Retrieve chat history, download attachments

### Configuration

The skills assume `lark` is in your PATH. If not, you can either:

1. Add the binary location to your PATH
2. Edit the skill files to use the full path
3. Set `LARK_CONFIG_DIR` environment variable to point to your `.lark/` config directory

The JSON output format makes it straightforward for AI assistants to parse responses and take action.

## License

MIT - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat: add message sending capability to lark CLI
- Add lark msg send command with support for:
  * Sending text messages to users and chats
  * Mentioning users with --mention flag
  * Including links with --link and --url flags
  * Auto-detecting recipient types (email, user_id, open_id, chat_id)
  * Escape sequence processing (\n, \t, ", \)

- Update API layer with SendMessage function and types
- Enhance command validation and error handling
- Add comprehensive documentation for agent discoverability:
  * Update skills/messages/SKILL.md with agent capabilities
  * Create AGENTS.md quick reference guide
  * Update CLAUDE.md and README.md
  * Add escape sequence formatting guide

- Add agent-friendly features:
  * Explicit flag-based interface
  * Clear error messages and validation
  * Comprehensive help text with examples
  * Consistent JSON output for easy parsing

Breaking changes: None (new feature)
Tests: Manual testing completed for all functionality

README.md, after:

# lark

A CLI tool for interacting with Lark/Feishu APIs, designed for use with Claude Code and other AI assistants.

## Why This Tool?

The official Lark MCP server exists, but its tools are not token-efficient. Each tool call returns verbose responses that consume significant context window space when used with AI assistants.

This CLI addresses that by:

- **Returning compact JSON** - Structured output optimized for programmatic consumption
- **Providing markdown conversion** - Documents are converted to markdown (~2-3x smaller than raw block structures)
- **Supporting selective queries** - Fetch only what you need (e.g., just event IDs, just document titles)

The result: AI assistants can interact with Lark using fewer tokens, leaving more context for actual work.

## Features

- **Calendar** - List, create, update, delete events; check availability; find common free time; RSVP
- **Contacts** - Look up users by ID, search by name, list department members
- **Documents** - Read documents as markdown, list folders, resolve wiki nodes, get comments
- **Messages** - Retrieve chat history, download attachments, send messages to users and chats

## Quick Start

1. Create a Lark app at https://open.larksuite.com with appropriate permissions
2. Copy `config.example.yaml` to `.lark/config.yaml` and add your App ID
3. Set `LARK_APP_SECRET` environment variable
4. Run `./lark auth login` to authenticate
5. Start using: `./lark cal list --week`

See [USAGE.md](USAGE.md) for full documentation.

## Building

```bash
make build    # Build binary to ./lark
make test     # Run tests
make install  # Install to $GOPATH/bin
```

## Usage with Claude Code

This tool is designed to be invoked via Claude Code skills. Pre-built skill definitions are included in the `skills/` directory.

### Installing Skills

Copy the skill directories to your Claude Code skills location:

```bash
# Project-specific (recommended)
cp -r skills/* /path/to/your/project/.claude/skills/

# Or user-wide
cp -r skills/* ~/.claude/skills/
```

Available skills:
- `calendar` - Manage calendar events, check availability, RSVP
- `contacts` - Look up users and departments
- `documents` - Read documents, list folders, browse wikis
- `messages` - Retrieve chat history, download attachments, send messages to users and chats

### Configuration

The skills assume `lark` is in your PATH. If not, you can either:

1. Add the binary location to your PATH
2. Edit the skill files to use the full path
3. Set `LARK_CONFIG_DIR` environment variable to point to your `.lark/` config directory

The JSON output format makes it straightforward for AI assistants to parse responses and take action.

## License

MIT - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)
